Snaphot (migawka/zrzut)


interstellar travel is to be made possible. Ship accelerates to fraction of c (approx 25%) without a crew. On board only elements to build a human. 

Warp drive is still in reaserch. Humanity cannot handle such large energy yet.

It's about 100 years after the first interplanetary travel. Funny how fast it went. To us now those first travelers are like vikings discovering new land.

We can break out from the solar system. Setup a first remote base on Centauri system.

Method is tested whwn it comes to acceleration as well as the remote copy. First tests on rats proofed that the Local instance and Remote have the same DNA and same knowladge, character. Thay pass labirynts, have emotional bonds to trainers.
Test with apes where more complicated. Larger brain structure. Snapshot required Exahertz probing to read. The largest magnetic field generator was created deep inside a moutain. A simple technology of superxonducted niob8um magnets cooled with liquid helium, like the ancient ones used at CERN, where scaled an improved to gigantic proportions. Magnetic fields where able to make a grown human levitate in them. Superhigh sampling radio frequencies and magnetic fields made it ablo to reverse engineer the state of the neuro network.

I once saw some realy old documentary where two guys at home reverse engineered one of rhe first semiconductor chips by applying different frequencies an voltage. I was so in to it ive made it my science project at school. Just used more modern method against the present equivalent of that chip. Got an A for that. But still did not win rhe main competition. Fast DNA sequencer made by my friend Greg won that time.



Crew's DNA sequence known. When acceleration complete genetic clone is produced. Organism does not suffer during acceleration process and is generated on the way. 
No need to teleport the whole human. Just build one form scratch when needed.
Age is no limit. The ready body may be younger than the original.



At destination a ready 'empty human' is ready for neurotransfer.

At source the original traveler is prepared for neuroscan. This can be done years in advance, before reaching the destination. The information is to be send to the ship. So ie. a Proxima Centauri travel 4ly at 25%c. The scan can be performed 12 year after launch. 

One drawback. During the scan the location of neuro connections is mapped. A snapshot is done and send to ship for setting in the new version. That snapshot is the complete information of memories, behaviour etc. 
The original neurons (brain structure) decay in a matter of days. This makes it a 'clone safe'. The original is actually destroyed and the information is passed to replicators to 'overwrite' the empty neuronetwork with the snapshot.
The scan due to the enormous amount of E-M fields destroys the cells. Death is due to cell decay that may not continue function. Any cell. Looks like radiation sickness ar extreme case of chemotherapy.
IDEA: May be used quantum entanglement.

Main twist. 
It's all cool you get in to a machine get scanned, replicated in a remote ship and continue exploration. The true horror is what happens to the original.
You shut your eyes ... a flash of light .. and you open them.
It may happen that you are on a ship - four years later and you pass the Centauri system.
But this time you are not lucky. The copy is perfect. Data sent an on its way to Proxima. But you are the one that stayed. You are the disposable clone that needs to die.

Follow the psychological aspects of someone that accepts that there will be only one of him. Needs to understand that he will not go anywhere. There is no 'magic' wake up in a new place. You stay here and die. The thing that survives is DNA and the neuro snapshot, both can be digitalized and transferred but the latter one one time read/write operation - no multi copy can be made.

What do you feel. How do you react. A transferee is actually a suicide - but not a complete. There will be a You again. Just not you. So who are you. From the point of the scan there are two independent instances that share the same DNA and same initial state of neuro network. But the source is soon to be no more. So are you a copy or an individual. Is this a transfer to another body or a suicide.

Few days will pass before the body gives up and for humane reasons you will be put in a coma to die without pain. What are the final thoughts before the injection. How does the family react. There is a You out there - but it will also see you die. 
How do you say goodbye. Is it a goodbye?

